# CS 436 (R 03/24/2016)

## Distributed Systems

- definition and motivation
- desirable properties
- design principles

- ***distributed system***:
  - collection of (independent) computers (hardware and software) that appear to the user as a single one
  - communciation infrastructure
  - transparency
  - support network applications

- motivation
  - more resources
    - scalability
  - get closer to the user
    - localization
  - better performance
  - transparency
  - fault tolerance, availability
  - delegation

- distribution 
  - computing resources
  - storage
  - communication

- properties
  - ACID (atomicity, consistency, isolation, durability)
  - scalability
  - dependable
  - security
  - cost efficiency
  - efficient
    - metrics
      - response time
      - delay
      - quality of service
  - heterogenity (universality)
    - across operating systems
  - transparency
    - DNS, CDN
    - hide concurrency

## Concurrency

1. Concurrent threads appear to be running at the same time, i.e. the order cannot be predetermined.
    - True

2. Two events are said to be mutually exclusive, if the occurrence of one precludes the occurrence of the other.
    - True

3. Critical section is a section of code that operates on a shared resource. Only one thread should be executing in a critical section at a time.
    - True

- critical section requirements
  - safety
    - at most one thread can be in c.s. at a time
  - liveness (progress)
      - if T1 is not in c.s. then T1 should not prevent T2 from entering c.s.
  - bounded waiting (no starvation)
    - T1 will eventually be able to enter c.s. after a reasonable waiting time
  - performance
    - low overhead
  - fault tolerance

4. Mutual exclusion is a technique used to implement critical sections.
  - True

5. Concurrency exists when
    b. two or more threads/processes attempt to use a resource in a manner that doesn't guarantee consistency.

6. When we say an operation is atomic we mean
    b. all parts of the operation are completed without the possibility of any other operation on any processor manipulating the resources being used by the operation.

7. A sequence of instructions that modifies, updates or accesses a resource shared by multiple threads or processes is called 
    a. a critical section.

8. The mutual exclusion problem
    - deals with techniques designed to guarantee that code segments accessing the same resources are executed atomically.

9. The most obvious condition necessary for a good solution to the concurrency problem is that
    a. no two processes may be simultaneously inside their critical sections.

10. There are some proposed solutions to the mutual exclusion problem that utilize a lock variable. This variable is set to 0 if the shared resource is not being used, and set to 1 when the resource is in use. So if we want to use the resource, we have but to check the lock variable. If it is 1, we continually repeat the test until the lock variable becomes 0. Then we set it to 1, access the shared resource, and set the lock variable back to 0. What can go wrong with this solution?
    c. There is a concurrency condition. Multiple processes (or threads) could check the lock variable, find it 0, and then set it to 1 and enter their critical sections.

11. Solutions to the mutual exclusion problem that require a process to check a lock variable repeatedly until it has a specified value, even if implemented correctly (that is, if they prevent multiple processes from entering their critical sections at the same time), still have a significant problem. What is that problem?
    a. The process that is waiting to enter its critical section is continually consuming the processor resource, checking and checking again, significantly delaying other processes from using the processor and potentially relinquishing their use of the desired resource.

12. Which of the following may lead to deadlocks?
    d. all
        - mutual exclusion
        - a process may hold allocated resources while awaiting assignment of other resources
        - no resource can be forcibly removed from a process holding it

13. To solve the deadlock problem, is it enough that the processes/threads start with locking all shared resources before accessing their critical sections. 
    - False