# CS 436 (R 03/17/2016)

# Security

- privacy
- ***message confidentiality***: ensuring that the message is kept away from prying eyes, only viable between the parties participating in the exchange
- ***message integrity***: ensure that the message has not been changed, altered, or corrupted
- ***authentication***: checking to ensure that the message is coming from the correct party
- ***denial of service attack (DoS)***:
	- objective: prevent users from access the service
	- recall a buffer exists between server
	- if the buffer is too full, other users cannot contribute
	- ***flood(ing) attack***
	- ***vulnerability attack***: attacker knows the vulnerability and sends a message to put down the server, rendering it useless
	- ***TCP SYN attack***: attacker can try to open the maximum number of TCP connections 
	- ***distributed denial of service (DDos)***: large number or network of DoS attacks
	- also physical: unplugging the network, impersonating the boss of the company

1. What are the differences between message privacy (or confidentiality) and message integrity? Can you have confidentiality without integrity? Can you have integrity without confidentiality? Justify your answer. 

	Message privacy is keeping the contents of the message away from parties who are not part of the exchange, maintaining confidentiality. Message integrity is maintaining the message's quality and consistency, ensuring it is not changed, altered, or corrupted since the sender sent it.

	Yes, you can have confidentiality without integrity. If the hacker can intercept it and replace it, they may not necessarily be able to read the original message.

	Yes, you can have integrity without confidentiality. If the hacker can intercept it and read it, they may not necessarily be able to alter the message and send it.

- suppose a hacker intercepts a teacher sending marks to a student in a plaintext email
	- confidentiality is breached
	- if teacher does not sign the email, hacker may change the mark, breaching integrity
		- sign using a key (RSA)
		- using secret keys between teacher and student

2. Internet entities (routers, switches, DNS servers, Web servers, user end systems, and so on) often need to communicate securely. Give three specific example pairs of Internet entities that may want secure communication. 

  1. bank's web server and bank client's user end system require privacy 
  2. status of the links between routers, can cause loops between routers
  3.  DNS server to protect IP addresses from being modified

- the longer the key, the more security it provides
	- the better performing the computer, the more bits you add to the key
- suppose Alice and Bob cannot communicate privately. is there a way for Alice and Bob to communicate using secret keys?
	- yes
	- the problem is how to exchange the secret key
	- one way: RSA to encrypt the secret key using another means of communication
- one-time pad
	- con: you can only use it one time
	- for every message, you need another secret and another pad
	- more secure, but more overhead in generating and exchanging

- ***symmetric-key encryption***
	- use the same keys to encrypt and decrypt
- public key
	- encrypts
- private key (secret key)
	- decrypts

3. From a service perspective, what is an important difference between a symmetric-key system and a public-key system? 

	A public-key requires each person to have a private and public key, whereas a symmetric-key requires a single private and public key for all people in the exchange.

4. Suppose N people want to communicate with each of N – 1 other people using symmetric key encryption. All communication between any two people, i and j, is visible to all other people in this group of N, and no other person in this group should be able to decode their communication. How many keys are required in the system as a whole? Now suppose that public key encryption is used. How many keys are required in this case? 

	Using symmetric-key encryption, a total of 2*n keys are required. Using public-key encryption, a total of n*(n-1)/2 keys are required.

5. In what way does a hash provide a better message integrity check than a checksum (such as the Internet checksum)? 
	
	The number of collisions using a hash is much lower than the number of collisions using a checksum.

6. What does it mean for a signed document to be verifiable and non-forgeable? 

	Verifiable means that it is possible to confirm that the sender could have sent (Could A have sent M?).
	Non-forgeable means that it is impossible for anyone other than the sender to send the message (Could anybody else other than A have sent M?).
	
7. In what way does the public-key encrypted message hash provide a better digital signature than the public-key encrypted message?

	An encrypted hash has better performance than an encrypted message (messages can be extremely long).

8. Consider a variation of the Message Authentication Code (MAC) algorithm where the sender sends (m,H(m)+s), where m is the message, and H(m)+s is the concatenation of the hash H(m) and the secret s. Is this variation flawed? Why or why not? 

	[ secret | hash | message ] - use secret to create hash of message

	Yes, it is flawed. The secret is used to create the hash of the message, so if the message was intercepted, a different message with the correct signature can be created using the secret that is appended.

9. Suppose Alice has a message that she is ready to send to anyone who asks. Thousands of people want to obtain Alice’s message, but each wants to be sure of the integrity of the message. In this context, do you think a MAC-based or a digital-signature-based integrity scheme is more suitable? Why? 

	MAC-based requires a secret key, so thousands of secret keys must be generated. Digital-signature-based requires Alice to have a public and secret key, which she can use over and over for each message she sends, removing the key generation overhead. In this case digital-signature-based is more suitable.